README.rst, before:

DeepSpeech REST API
===================

|Open| |versions|


.. |Open| image:: https://badges.frapsoft.com/os/v1/open-source.svg?v=103)](https://github.com/ellerbrock/open-source-badges/
.. |versions| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/google-cloud-speech.svg

This REST API is built on top of Mozilla's `DeepSpeech`_. It is written based on `examples`_  provided by Mozilla. It accepts HTTP methods such as GET and POST as well as WebSocket. To perform transcription using HTTP methods is
appropriate for relatively short audio files while the WebSocket can be used even for longer audio recordings.

.. _DeepSpeech: https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech
.. _examples: https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech-examples


Getting started
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Below instructions are for Unix/OS X, they will have to be changed to be able to run the code on Windows.

1. Clone the repository to your local machine and change directory to ``deepspeech-rest-api``

.. code-block:: console

    $ git clone https://github.com/fabricekwizera/deepspeech-rest-api.git
    $ cd deepspeech-rest-api


2. Create a virtual environment and activate it (assuming that it is installed your machine)
and install the project in editable mode (locally).

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m venv venv
    $ source venv/bin/activate
    $ python -m pip install -U pip==21.0.0 wheel
    $ python -m pip install --editable .


3. Download the model and the scorer. For English model and scorer, follow below links

.. code-block:: console

    $ wget https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech/releases/download/v0.9.3/deepspeech-0.9.3-models.pbmm \
        -O deepspeech_model.pbmm
    $ wget https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech/releases/download/v0.9.3/deepspeech-0.9.3-models.scorer \
        -O deepspeech_model.scorer


For other languages, you can place the two files in the current working directory under the names ``deepspeech_model.pbmm`` for the
model and ``deepspeech_model.scorer`` for the scorer.

4. Migrations are done using `Alembic`_

.. _Alembic: https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/tutorial.html#the-migration-environment

5. Running the server

.. code-block:: console


    $ python run.py


Usage
~~~~~

Register a new user and request a new `JWT`_ token to access the API

.. _JWT: https://jwt.io/
.. code-block:: console

    $ curl -X POST \
    http://0.0.0.0:8000/users \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
    "username": "forrestgump",
    "email": "fgump@yourdomain.com",
    "password": "yourpassword"
    }'

API response

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "message": "User forrestgump is successfully created."
    }


To generate a JWT token to access the API

.. code-block:: console

    $ curl -X POST \
    http://0.0.0.0:8000/token \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
    "username": "forrestgump",
    "password": "yourpassword"
    }'


If both steps are done correctly, you should get a token in below format

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "access_token": "JWT_token"
    }


With this ``JWT_token``, you have access to different endpoints of the API.


Performing STT (Speech-To-Text)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Change directory to ``audio`` and use the WAV files provided for testing.

- STT the HTTP way


.. code-block:: console

    cURL

    $ curl -X POST \
    http://0.0.0.0:8000/api/stt/http \
    -H 'Authorization: Bearer JWT_token' \
    -F 'audio=@8455-210777-0068.wav' \
    -F 'paris=-1000' \
    -F 'power=1000' \
    -F 'parents=-1000'


.. code-block:: python

    python

    import requests

    jwt_token = 'JWT_token'
    headers = {'Authorization': 'Bearer ' + jwt_token}
    url = 'http://0.0.0.0:8000/api/stt/http'
    hot_words = {'paris': -1000, 'power': 1000, 'parents': -1000}
    audio_filename = 'audio/8455-210777-0068.wav'
    audio = [('audio', open(audio_filename, 'rb'))]
    response = requests.post(url, data=hot_words, files=audio, headers=headers)
    print(response.json())


``Note the usage of hot-words and their boosts in the request.``

- STT the WebSocket way (simple test)

WebSockets don't support ``curl``. To take advantage of this feature, you will have to write a web app to send request to ``ws://0.0.0.0:8000/api/stt/ws``.

 
Below command can be used to check if the WebSocket is running.

.. code-block:: console

    $ python test_websocket.py

In the both cases (HTTP and WebSocket), you should get a result in below format.

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "message": "experience proves this",
      "time": 1.4718825020026998
    }

Commit message:

Added the first version of streaming speech with mic

README.rst, after:

DeepSpeech REST API
===================

|Open| |versions|


.. |Open| image:: https://badges.frapsoft.com/os/v1/open-source.svg?v=103)](https://github.com/ellerbrock/open-source-badges/
.. |versions| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/google-cloud-speech.svg

This REST API is built on top of Mozilla's `DeepSpeech`_. It is written based on `examples`_  provided by Mozilla. It accepts HTTP methods such as GET and POST as well as WebSocket. To perform transcription using HTTP methods is
appropriate for relatively short audio files while the WebSocket can be used even for longer audio recordings.

.. _DeepSpeech: https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech
.. _examples: https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech-examples


Getting started
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Below instructions are for Unix/OS X, they will have to be changed to be able to run the code on Windows.

1. Clone the repository to your local machine and change directory to ``deepspeech-rest-api``

.. code-block:: console

    $ git clone https://github.com/fabricekwizera/deepspeech-rest-api.git
    $ cd deepspeech-rest-api


2. Create a virtual environment and activate it (assuming that it is installed your machine)
and install the project in editable mode (locally).

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -m venv venv
    $ source venv/bin/activate
    $ python -m pip install -U pip==21.0.0 wheel
    $ python -m pip install --editable .


3. Download the model and the scorer. For English model and scorer, follow below links

.. code-block:: console

    $ wget https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech/releases/download/v0.9.3/deepspeech-0.9.3-models.pbmm \
        -O deepspeech_model.pbmm
    $ wget https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech/releases/download/v0.9.3/deepspeech-0.9.3-models.scorer \
        -O deepspeech_model.scorer


For other languages, you can place the two files in the current working directory under the names ``deepspeech_model.pbmm`` for the
model and ``deepspeech_model.scorer`` for the scorer.

4. Migrations are done using `Alembic`_

.. _Alembic: https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/tutorial.html#the-migration-environment

5. Running the server

.. code-block:: console


    $ python run.py


Usage
~~~~~

Register a new user and request a new `JWT`_ token to access the API

.. _JWT: https://jwt.io/
.. code-block:: console

    $ curl -X POST \
    http://0.0.0.0:8000/users \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
    "username": "forrestgump",
    "email": "fgump@yourdomain.com",
    "password": "yourpassword"
    }'

API response

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "message": "User forrestgump is successfully created."
    }


To generate a JWT token to access the API

.. code-block:: console

    $ curl -X POST \
    http://0.0.0.0:8000/token \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
    "username": "forrestgump",
    "password": "yourpassword"
    }'


If both steps are done correctly, you should get a token in below format

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "access_token": "JWT_token"
    }


With this ``JWT_token``, you have access to different endpoints of the API.


Performing STT (Speech-To-Text)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

STT with audio files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Change directory to ``audio`` and use the WAV files provided for testing.
``Note the usage of hot-words and their boosts in the request.``

- STT the HTTP way


.. code-block:: console

    cURL

    $ curl -X POST \
    http://0.0.0.0:8000/api/v1/stt/http \
    -H 'Authorization: Bearer JWT_token' \
    -F 'audio=@8455-210777-0068.wav' \
    -F 'paris=-1000' \
    -F 'power=1000' \
    -F 'parents=-1000'


.. code-block:: python

    python

    import requests

    jwt_token = 'JWT_token'
    headers = {'Authorization': 'Bearer ' + jwt_token}
    url = 'http://0.0.0.0:8000/api/v1/stt/http'
    hot_words = {'paris': -1000, 'power': 1000, 'parents': -1000}
    audio_filename = 'audio/8455-210777-0068.wav'
    audio = [('audio', open(audio_filename, 'rb'))]
    response = requests.post(url, data=hot_words, files=audio, headers=headers)
    print(response.json())



- STT the WebSocket way (simple test)

WebSockets don't support ``curl``. To take advantage of this feature, you will have to write a web app to send request to the endpoint ``/api/v1/stt/ws``.

 
Below command can be used to check if the WebSocket is running.

.. code-block:: console

    $ python client_audio_file_stt.py

In the both cases (HTTP and WebSocket), you should get a result in below format.

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "message": "experience proves this",
      "time": 1.4718825020026998
    }

STT with microphone stream
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Below command can be used to stream speech using the WebSocket on the endpoint ``api/v1/mic``.

.. code-block:: console

    $ python client_audio_file_stt.py
